I went on a distro desktop excursion that landed me on an open seuss over the last week really tell me about this
okay, so a a
Sort of like a bend like a like a like a bender if you will on like you binged you you went on a ram
Just row bender. Oh, yeah, it was it was a heck of a bender. That's for sure. I
Like the rampage. I think that's also okay. Tell me about it. Tell me about this journey and
Sir, what were you striving for and did you find it?
Well, I thought I was going to try out Katie eat so I
Okay, okay
Katie e kubun to make sense. Sure. No, let's do it. It's in way
Have you heard of the neon have you heard of their neon the neon project stuff for you?
I didn't want to do that because of it pulling in the jet
Repos and everything. It's just a little bit too hard to hardcore. Yeah, sure. Yeah, so I
I installed it. I had some problems and I thought okay. Well install the back ports. Maybe they'll fix it
Well fix about half of the problems. It gave me more problems
That was not a solution for me so then I was like, well, I'm already on Ubuntu. Let's
Remove everything but the base strip it down and let's try Ubuntu Ubuntu mate
Okay, so you just so you're like, I'm not even gonna go Katie. I'm gonna go a totally different route
Yeah, we're just like, yeah, let's go a different route. Yeah. Okay. All right, so
Try that out
Just wasn't for me. Now that being said a lot of what was on there
really did impress me but
There were just some things that were breaking like the sound card settings and whatnot
suddenly, I'd find my sound cards were disabled if I
Walk between settings too many times stuff like that
So it was a no-go and I decided to go open Susie and try Katie again
Cuz why not because the issue I was having was with k-mail and the PIM system
It could went who has a bad SQL back-end
Package
well, I still couldn't get the PIM to work which is sucks because email is important to me and
I wanted to use k-mail because I'd like that particular client. And if I'm on Katie, why not?
Katie why not?
So that wasn't a solution for me. So I'm back on gnome and open Susie
Alright, so I got I mean the I think the elephant in the room. I mean just everybody's got to know
Why not enter gross and Katie because then you would get a rolling version of Katie
It never really crossed my mind have you used this in the past
Susa yes
I mean if it's seems like a good reason right there
This is Linux unplugged episode 134 for March 1st
Welcome to Linux unplugged your weekly Linux talk show that's been getting its nostalgia on this afternoon. My name is Chris
My name is Wes. Hey there Wes. Yeah, I can't help it. We started talking about Mario. It's just too much fun
Yeah, and then I have to I have to admit I got a little distracted with a soundboard
Sometimes it's just too there's no judgment here
I will give you $10 if you can sneak one of those in on the next text. Okay, good. Very nice. Haha. I'll try
Well, here's what I'm gonna do to make it up for you. Great show today coming up on this week's episode of Linux unplugged
We got some updates from some of our favorite distros out there wimpy's here to give us an update specifically about mate
We're gonna talk a little bit Raspberry Pi
Threesies yeah, yeah later on in the show, too. I did a pretty good job of putting my foot in my mouth
Well, I I accidentally left out an important piece of information on Sunday show the audience noticed a little errata
Wes a little errata in today's episode of the unplugged program and actually I'm hoping we get to a wider discussion about what the core
Issue is and if maybe it's time we just get off our porches and let the kids play on our lawn
I won't spoil it for you. Oh
also
Intel the Intel Atom x3. They got this great new idea. Let me let me tell you how it works
Well, you hook it up. You took up your Android phone you hook it up Wes
Desktop environment. Well, I'm the Android new
Convergence is what the eye it's a new word. They're using it
They're not gonna make sense. You got to check it out something from Intel running Debian
We'll be talking about that on today's episode of the unplugged program
We've also got a bunch of other goodies in there including some interesting follow-up from the mint team
Which is actually gonna be the first thing when we cover
Before we get there though
Wes brought us a new beer
Something that has been hitting me in the face
So I'll bring in the mumble room to they can so we can chat about this and see it with them and see what they think
About a time appropriate greetings their virtual log. Hello
Hello, so I've had the I've had the privilege of Wes stopping by and
You know bringing beers with him
Stopping by the app and I'm like hey Wes if you got this beer you might as well sit in and do a show and then
You know one thing leads to another so
Every week we've been trying different stuff now
This one's a local from just south of us down in Oregon and it's called the wanderlust Indian pale ale fresh hops
Bold flavor from America's Northwest
6.2%
Alcohol by volume and I'm like geez this thing's really kicking me in the face West
I'm like, I'm like this is really strong like this is where the Mario came from
Yeah, it was a lot of taste. It has a 89 score on beer advocate, but here's what's going on with this thing
They've put grapefruit in here. They got grapefruit
So we're drinking a beer that's got grapefruit in so if you're sitting around having a having yourself a virtual log meeting
Drink drink drink yourself a citrusy beer and you'll be right in step with us
Anyways moving on from the beer of the day today
big story from last week was Linux mint and
The hack to the Linux mint website via WordPress which led to compromising ISO images. Yeah, no good
Big discussion around that and since then we have an update from the mint project
Clam has gone to the Linux mint blog and
He's posted
Part of the monthly news update that he does and in here he addresses the recent attack
So I just thought maybe we'd go through some of this and gets you know, just get an update directly from him
Yeah, it's a pretty big pretty big post. Yeah, and I've pulled out a few sections here
He says I'd like to thank the PHP BB team and automatic the company behind
WordPress.com for reaching out to see if they could help us in any way
I'd also like to thank Avast for working with us on this
They contacted us and offered to help analyze the fake ISO
We gave them a copy of it and all the info we already had a day later
They came back with a full malware analysis
And they were able to issue an update to warn people who might still be affected by it. Avast also perched
Pushed updates toward their own users who run Avast
To block the servers finally the addresses of the malware connecting to the server were shut down or blacklisted by
Kaspersky's DNS sinkholes. I've been really impressed by Avast and the awesome work they did it helped us react a lot quicker
They also thank a few other people
They also talk about a new partnership they have
For security auditing, but I want to jump ahead a little bit in the article
Aspects which could be used in future attacks. This was like
What did you learn is what I'm thinking right so here's what he says to protect you and reduce the risk of man-in-the-middle attacks
Almost all of our websites will be moved to HTTPS
So you are guaranteed you were looking at the real Linux Mint server and the communication between you and us is encrypted so HTTPS
going on on Mint sites
To make ISO verification more accurate
We will communicate SHA256 sums and GPG information more prominently going forward
MD5 was displayed as a primary means of verification with SHA256 and GPG being available for people who really wanted them
We will review the way this information is shown and try to make more people use SHA256 and hopefully also GPG by default now
This seems like a direct response to yes. It does you impressed by that?
Yeah
Those are good things. I do note that the I'm looking at the blog right now. Mm-hmm not using HTTPS
I didn't type that. I know I know
Yeah, I noticed that too. I mean it says it's coming. Yeah, you're right though something else
Aspects aspects would relate to the operating system. We'll be considering re-adding GFU
FW GU FW which is the firewall config tool
To the default software selection what happened was a very uncommon
But as our project and Linux in general are getting more popular our operating system is going more and more of a target
We cannot ignore the threat of malware and think that it only affects windows
So maybe a firewall by default and he says thanks to all the people who donate to us and to all of our sponsors
We feel built guilty this month a bit guilty this month because the attacks took all of our focus
We didn't work on mint as much as we wanted there are some really cool things going on in development
Like there's now four X apps projects
XED X reader X player and X viewer most of the mint tools were migrated to Python 3 GTK 3 and g-settings and
given better HD HDPI support
And we're looking at improved out-of-the-box touchpad support, but he actually mentions a couple of times in this post here
How it really sucks that this thing robbed development time away from the project mm-hmm?
And he really seems to be kind of sore so overall
A mumble room what are your thoughts on sort of mints answers and and improvements here good enough a?
Good start anybody have a take yeah, why?
Has it taken this to?
GPG sign his
ISO sums I've looked back over the ISOs and other distros
We're doing this more than 10 years ago. Why is he only doing it now?
I mean weren't they available before just not they were hard to find I think that was my take from it, but I'm not sure
But it's a good point. I mean it should be it feels to me that
Like like this is the keys focused on development and continuing operating system
And I think the popularity of Linux mint shows that he's doing a good job
Or at least there's people that really appreciate what they're doing
But they really need someone in the community to step up and you know first
Make it the first priority to do these kind of admin jobs that you can't half-ass when you're a big community
Right you become a massive
Attack service when you when you're that popular and there's no doubting that Linux mint is very popular
And so you've got to take care of those things because if you don't stuff like this happens. It's it's you know 101
Well, here's what here's what actually grabbed my attention in the blog post
Because I think when we talk about mint there are a lot of things that
When we talk about mint there everybody has everybody who's not like a big mint fan has a list of mint issues
Oh, I don't like that
They do X or I don't like that they don't do kernel updates or whatever right I don't like they don't do kernel updates
It's a pretty common one and Clem
address that in this blog post
One of the key advantages of Linux mint is it stability versus security policy
The level of information shown at the at the update management is configurable
It puts the power in the hands of the user which is something that is lacking in many other operating systems
For all that power to be an asset though users need to understand why?
And what is at play?
So he's kind of admitting that maybe they could do a better job of informing users about the decisions, but essentially saying
We're keeping this we're gonna prove it
We're gonna continue to improve it
But we're keeping this policy of not necessarily doing kernel updates by default because it's stability versus security
Now, why do I bring that up? I bring that up because I think stability versus security stability versus security security
I think you can use that rationale in millions of ways when you're managing a project and I think what it was
don't and to answer your question directly poppy is
steps were taken that seemed sufficient for the job at hand and
Looking at it practically this just didn't this extra work just didn't need to be done. It wasn't important
And I think that's been readdressed and reevaluated now. That's my take
They'll be interesting to see what comes of this, you know
If there's any more incidents if things kind of just pick up if they take these things more seriously
Yeah, it seems like and they've got they've got like I said here
They've got to deal with that with the group that's gonna continue to audit and check in on their security
So that seems like a good thing and it's nice to have a good update
Yeah, transparency is key in these kinds of things. I
Guess in the grand scheme of things it could have been a lot worse
Right. And so this is you know, this is a good way to sort of relatively short. Yeah
Didn't last very long been pretty clear on pretty pretty clear on communication. So alright cool
Interesting just to get an update from the mint team. And so I wanted to follow up on that
I also figure why don't we shine a little light on the fedora project?
You know them fedora guys are working on a new release fedora guys and gals, of course
And so Matthew Miller sat down with PC world and I did a little interview. I believe with Chris Hoffman
talking about fedora and its growth and some of the directions fedora is going in and
West this doesn't sound like your father's fedora
No, it does not fedora wants to start converting people who aren't already Linux users over to the platform
But they don't mean targeting the average desktop user fedora workstation is still focused on being developer target environment
But as Miller says developers are people too
Here's the part though that I thought was interesting ready for this fedora has never officially supported like drivers and codecs
Because it has a focus on free software and has no plans to do so. However
Now these aren't really plans
Fedora project would like to make the process of installing them less painful and
There will be a big conversation about that in the next year direct quote from Miller
If you need to have those graphics drivers and you're a grown-up you can make that decision yourself. Hey
Now this is the fedora that
Really sparked the whole debate on mono not being included by default in Linux, right?
This is the fedora that has made it
So such that there are spin-offs like Aurora that make actually just using some of this stuff reasonable and there's a group RPM fusion
It's been around forever to try to fill in some of the rough spots
so this is a for this is a fedora that once was
That's that's not free software we won't we won't accommodate that too well, you know if you want to be a grown-up and
Install your own graphics driver. That's that choice. You want to be a grown-up?
I thought that was pretty interesting wording mumble room. Am I reading too much into this?
Anybody want to be a grown-up
so
It's kind of interesting
It's it's kind of a different step from where they have been and more towards
Kind of where a lot of other people have been for a while. I think it's I think it's acknowledging that you know
Maybe we can continue to be a free software distro and then also, you know, give a better option
I like kind of like the Debian room. I like producer q5 sis. This is the fedora. We need not the fedora
We deserve it might be might be reverse of that but fedora 24 will also feature a layered image build service
Which will be designed to make creating and providing containers as easy as creating a standard RPM package
Fedora also includes a preview of XTG apps, which enables sandbox desktop and Wayland will make sandboxing possible as well
Wayland is gonna be in there
They said we wanted to have something that kind of brings fedora activities to the visible to the web
So fedora hubs is going to be a new web-based social media portal
Where information about fedora is going to be available and it should also foster interactions. For example, they say this is a new project
They'll be working on people on the fedora design team could collaborate and share designs in that hub
It's designed to make it easier jump in so you don't have to learn mailing list cultures or IRC etiquette get involved
They're gonna have a new way to share with people online. I see here
They've also got notifications when long-running terminal jobs and that's sweet. That's nice
I think that's been there for a little bit. Yeah, but that is nice. I do like that. Yeah, I
I like this a layered imaging approach for making containers
But I tell you what this new tone, which I'm not necessarily disagreeing with but I think it's gonna upset some longtime hardcore
Fedora. Yeah, I'm curious what that means make it less painful
Yeah, see how far they go. I am the positioning is a strong one. Well if you want to be an adult, right?
That's a strong loaded sentence. Yeah. Yeah, that is a loaded sentence. Mr. Wimpy. Are you present sir?
Present. All right present and accounted for so wimpy after the break here. I want to chat with you about the the
Ubuntu Mate update that you just posted
We'll save the Raspberry Pi 3 stuff for a little bit if we can but I want to since we just did a fedora update and
We just did a mint update
Mm-hmm. We should do an Ubuntu Mate update. It's only fair. Yeah, it's only fair. Well, that's very kind. Right, right
And you had a good post. It was very nice. So I want to talk about that. So first
So first I'll mention our friends at DigitalOcean head over to DigitalOcean.com and support this show and get yourself an awesome Linux rig
For like totes free for two months
When you use our special promo code DO unplugged one word lowercase give you a $10 credit
Boom you go over there spin up a $5 rig in less than 55 seconds
For $5 you can get 500 megabytes around. Yeah, yeah a 20 gigabyte SSDs because they're all SSDs West
No way they is one CPU that's blazing fast and a terabyte of transfer
They got Ubuntu's up in there. They got the Debian's they got the fedoras the sent OS is they got the core OS
Did I mention they even have free BSD? No, I have to admit it West it is true
The rumors are true and it runs like a boss. That is also true
They have a HTML 5 console so you can log on the website and get access right there
From post all the way up to the login, which I can you know, I just can't do without that
Sometimes you don't need it that much. But when you really need it, you're just like, yes, that's so easy
That is totally the thing their interface is super intuitive. Very straightforward
If you're managing one droplet many droplets, you want to deploy an entire application stack or a base Linux rig?
It's nice and easy. They got data centers in New York, San Francisco, Singapore, Amsterdam, London, Germany, Toronto
Rumors of a new one opening up soon
I won't say too much. I don't want to get in trouble, but there are rumors
Rumors about a new data center very soon. So go check them out. They have a straightforward API, which means in all practical terms
There's just a ton of really great open source code already written
You can take advantage of including libraries if you do that Python thing you heard of that. Oh, I love that
You heard of the Python? Yeah. Yeah, have you heard of the pearl?
Yes, yeah the pearl. Yeah, I am familiar. They got libraries for those things and others West
I it's all new to me something to do with computers, but you should check it out. Don't listen to Chris
He doesn't know anything
Nope, never heard of these things before but I do know you can use the promo code do unplugged over digital ocean.com get yourself
a $10 credit and support this show and by the way
Check this out how to use ansible and tink VPN to secure your server infrastructure now. You've talked about this
That's exactly what I do. I will check that out. We'll have a report back on it
This is a heck of a graph. Oh, man. This is look at these graphics
Look at the look at the way they do all the commands there the config files nice and easy digital ocean is great tutorials
Beautiful. Oh, man. That's just a great service digital ocean.com use the promo code do unplugged in a big. Thank you to digital ocean
for sponsoring the unplugged program alright, mr. Wimpy, so I noticed over on the Ubuntu dashboard a org slash blog blog
That there is a February 2016 supporters update, and I don't know Wes
I I don't know if you saw this number here, and I maybe I'm reading something wrong here
Is are you if I am I correct in it looking at there has been $1,500 sent up upstream now
Is this is this right am I miss reading something? This is this is astounding
Yeah, I don't I don't quite know what the currency conversion is so it's a touch over 1500 euros, and I think oh, it's around
15 to 1600 yeah, something like that 1668 yeah
That is that's great so wimpy just for those who maybe are not familiar
There's various methods that your project is collecting funds. I know one of them is patreon
That's how I do it, but there's other methods right mm-hmm. Yep. There's patreon and
then people who
Choose to so on the download page. We put a thing out saying you know if everyone
tipped us two dollars fifty for a download there'd be enough to pay for the full-time development of
Ubuntu mate and the mate desktop and a good number of people actually take us up on that invitation and
pay some money when they download and
Yeah, we've we've been able to plow a good deal of that money back into the upstream developers that have been helping with
Either Ubuntu Marte or the Marte desktop. I really like wow I think that's such a cool model and so
In February now not only as there been a a pretty good amount of fundraising
Is this the is this your highest one reason? How is this going for you exactly is it continuing to trend upwards?
Is it leveled off? What's that like this? This is the most we've done in a month
I think up to this up to this point. We've done about
$3,000 so with this on top it's about four and a half thousand dollars something like that. We've done
Over the course of the project, but the last few months
We're having some server restructuring and the bandwidth bills
For the Raspberry Pi stuff. We're just massive. Oh, man. So that was that was
I was wondering like what is the one of the most expensive aspects of running distro if it is bandwidth if it's what yeah
Yeah, the the Raspberry Pi 2 downloads are almost equivalent to that donation figure that you're seeing there every month Wow
Yeah, hmm. Yeah, and you'd hope people would use torrents
But I suppose it's just not feasible for everybody a lot of people do use the torrents
But we we maintain a couple of web seeds to keep
Taking over
That's that's where it goes. Yeah
Because you want them to have it fast download so if the downloads not going fast the web seed is it's it's all part of
The experience, you know a lot of people they click download and they expect it to come down as fast as their broadband will allow them
and if your project is not doing that that's immediately a black mark, so we try to keep the
The torrents well the well seeded
but yeah, so we've
the real the real thing for this here is that
We had a lot of work that needed to be done in
February
Because I've started a new job not so long ago. I haven't had as much time to dedicate to the project
But with the money coming in and some restructuring on the server side
We've been able to reuse the money that we've we've had coming in on the development side
So this month we've been able to approach
eight developers
and ask them to do
Bodies of work for either Ubuntu Marte or the Marte desktop and they've all come through they've all delivered
We're not paying them anywhere near you know, what what they're actually doing some cases
They're getting close to market rate in a few cases. They've they've put in weeks worth of effort
You know for not much money at all
You're getting so you're hiring these developers to essentially massage things the way you want to deliver
The desktop the way you are right not hire so much as sort of incentivize
Yeah, not even that. I mean in most cases when I approach these guys and say look I'd really like this doing
Would you be prepared to do it? We can offer you this
By and large the first response is and I don't want any money. I
Will just do it
But and there are there are people on that are not on this list because we've approached them and they've simply said I don't
I don't want any money. I'm just going to do it and all of these people was were saying
that's not necessary, but I
Want so for example, some of the guys on this list, they've used the money to buy equipment to help them
Develop for Marte desktop or urban to Marte. That's great
So that's where it sort of comes full circle
Giving them something that they can use that they can then plow back in and one of the guys
One of the one of the guys just said
I'm gonna use the money to buy a comfortable chair, you know, it's very simple
I like that, but he had an uncomfortable chair. He was never comfortable sat at his computer. He's a student
I believe and he just said I'm going to go out and buy a new chair tomorrow
And I thought that was lovely. It looks like a couple of folks were involved in porting the Mate desktop over to GTK 3
Yeah, so Wolfgang and Vlad they're both core Marte
Desktop developers and they're primarily working on that porting effort and they have been for months
and I
It's it's essential work
It's a thankless task because there are all sorts of edge cases and weird bugs that that come up
And that hundred dollars that they each got is like nothing
Because for weeks and months of effort, but it's it's a thank you very much. You know, your efforts are well recognized
Appreciate what you're doing. This is the future. Tell me about Mate integration into synapse. What's this about?
uh, right, so
the back end of last year
I worked with uh, Rico the uh, the maintainer for synapse and we added some of the Mate
integration to synapse
and I
Was supposed to come back and do that work finish it off, but I ran out of time
So I went back to him and I basically said look this is the bits that we need adding
Can you do it? Can you get the packages into Debian? Can you get them into Ubuntu and can you do it all before?
1604 goes final. Oh, that's great
And and if you do it
You know if you're able to do it
I've got I forget how much it was but I an amount of money that I will give you to say
Thank you for your efforts and recognize your contribution to the project
And I think I asked that question on Friday and it was all done yesterday. Nice. No way. That's wow
then you know, I you know, I really uh, I I really have been
using this Apollo as my main driver and
The one thing I would like is a little bit snappier launcher. I want to fire it off
So snaps it across my mind. So wouldn't be what strikes me about all of this is
Well, all of this will make Ubuntu Mate a better project, but none of it is specific
None of it's specific to Ubuntu Mate. It all goes upstream. You're actually improving in most cases
you're just helping continue improvement of the Mate desktop in general or
Or something like that. I guess maybe the Mate welcome screen might be
Sort of specific to the distro. That is that is absolutely our sort of USP
So yes, the the Ubuntu Mate welcome and Mate tweak
Those are the things that are absolutely Ubuntu Mate. They're absolutely specific to us and the two guys that I've
Donated some money to for working on Ubuntu Mate welcome are
Ubuntu Mate developers. Hmm, but people are donating to Ubuntu Mate
So I think it's fair to distribute, you know that across, you know multiple projects and
When you look at some of the other stuff we've we've donated towards if you look at top menu GTK, for example
right, which is now being maintained by the Mate team in Debian and
Those packages have been introduced to Debian and Ubuntu
But more importantly top menu GTK also includes plugins for LXDE and XFCE
And we package and maintain those plugins as well
Which are also now available in Debian and Ubuntu 16.04 for those desktops to take advantage of so we've not you know
Just said oh, well, we'll just do the bit that's for Mate. We've done the whole thing. Hmm
it's interesting because
This work overall sort of helps improve the whole ecosystem. Yeah, it really does. I like that
That's a great model of you know how to support the people that support you
You know, I want to give Kitson a second to ask this question
But then Wes help me remember to come back to the model point because I look at elementary OS and I look at other projects
And I go, okay
This seems really like there's a model here that Wimpy is working with they can be applied to a lot of distros
That would I think help a lot of people up but let's hold that question and Kitson
I want to give you a chance to jump in before we go too far. So go ahead
Yeah, I want to ask Wimpy two questions. The first one being where does he see Mint Xapps?
Becoming relevant with Mate because it seems like they have a lot of same goals
And what's the status on getting a GUI package management system in?
Right the first one about Xapps
I don't know much about because I'm not really all that observant of what's going on with Mint
But my understanding is is that some of those Xapps are actually forks of
Mate applications
so I
Don't know. I guess Mint are
Changing the dependency so they can stand alone more not have to pull in, you know session managers and things like that
But a part of the desktop there. They're
bundled with
I don't see Xapps featuring in Mate or Ubuntu Mate. What if they ended up with you know
Just universally considered one of the better file managers if they did that or one of the better text editors
There wouldn't be like a policy against this just it have to be a compelling reason, right?
Yeah, yeah, and at the moment
We have a file manager and we have a text editor for example, and that integrates very tightly with the rest of the desktop environment
So when you drag something from the file manager into the text editor
The file just opens in the text editor and you know all sorts of you know
drag-and-drop integrations and actually the drag-and-drop integration in Mate because of its
Heritage from GNOME 2 is about the best
Out there, you know, you can drag and drop anything from anywhere. I'll play with that more stands the contact
Yeah, you really should it understand a powerful interaction to for a lot of users. Yeah, it's nice and quick. Yeah
hmm, so okay, so
Xapps, I don't know we shall see
Certainly for 1604. We're now in feature freeze. So really it's bug fixing and refinement at this point
So don't expect there to be any, you know big changes in in
1610 is going to be the playground for the future. That's when it that's when we can start to mix it up again
Okay. Now your next question was about package managers. Do you mean package managers or software centers?
Software centers package managers, etc
Okay, so in Ubuntu Mate 1604. We've talked about Ubuntu Mate welcome
a
spin-off in Ubuntu Mate welcome in 1510
There is a section where you can install software that's still there. It's been expanded somewhat and also
can be launched separately and
You'll find that now in the menus and it's labeled as the software boutique. So that
place where you
install software
We have about a hundred and twenty applications listed in there
Which is the best-in-class application that integrates well with the master a desktop to a particular task done
Yeah, this is this is really something wimpy and I really like that. There's just a one-click high proprietary software if you want nice
it's like the best bridging of my mom could figure it out and
People who want free and open source software. It works for them, too
it wouldn't be gave me a PPA so I could try to play with some of this and
You know for setting up the new Apollo. It was just that's awesome. It's super slick. It really is
So yeah, I like this approach actually wimpy. I like this a lot better than say the Ubuntu software center because
you
Know for a lot of users
They get kind of a static config once they have it up and going and this really spotlights the best stuff here
I mean this this is this is a better upfront and center than any app store attempt. I've seen on Linux yet. Definitely
Yeah, so, you know usually app stores have a like
Featured apps in different sections. The whole software boutique is the featured apps
That's that's just what it is. It's not everything. It's just the best stuff. There's MB
Look at that. Nice minecraft server
It open SSH. Yeah X to go. Yeah, it's not a huge list, right?
But it's a great list a Samba server right here. I mean, this is really cool
This is really
They also do some extra stuff
so for example
If you you're in the service section at the moment by the sound of it if you click the button to install SSH
It also behind the scene sets up SSH guard for you
Really nice
So there you go. So that's sort of the answer in the question of the App Store is yes
This is it's sort of a new take on it
Okay, and and also you'll find in there that if you want to explore the full Ubuntu catalog then the options to install
App grid the Ubuntu software center. I saw that an app ticker there. Yeah, I saw app grid is there too
Which is which is pretty good. There's a winter software center and synaptic and of course gdebi is installed by default
Which is yeah, what I like for installing Debian files that I download or deb files
alright, so let's talk about the model for a second because
Here's what we have is we have I think I think if you assume a couple of things
You need to have a distribution that appeals to a wide enough base that there's enough people to draw from to donate, right?
So that's gonna you can't you can't, you know, I mean some of your really small small distros
They don't qualify, but I think your distros like Antigros elementary OS
obviously Ubuntu Mate
Kubuntu any of these around this size they'd all qualify. Yeah, they'd all fit
the particular model that I'm sussing out wimpy and tell me if you think I've got it wrong is
You kind of doing a few things. You're very up in front representing what people are getting for the money
Essentially, you're saying this is where the money went. This is what some of the costs were
And you're applying you're you're kind of being flexible and how you're bringing in the money
So it can be through a direct funding method or it can be through patreon and you're kind of bringing all of the funds in
And so that seems to be and then what you're doing is you're kind of being specific and targeting where that money goes out when you
do spend it either for infrastructure costs or
to incentivize a developer to work on something and
Then when you do that you report on it now
This is this the rough is this sort of the rough model that you could say you're applying to fund the Ubuntu Mate project
Not to make you put all out there. But why I'm asking is it seems like in some sense that's kind of obvious yet
Nobody's really quite done this
So we originally started by if you look back through the monthly reports
We picked a particular project that we would that that was either integrated into Ubuntu Mate or Ubuntu Mate was was
Using for development or something and we would sponsor that project a say sponsor
We would donate some money to that project right? I remember
and
What I found doing that is actually
you
start a relationship with the developer that you don't know by doing that and
Then you get this. Oh, well, you know if there's anything I can ever do
You know to help you out just ask, you know, and it's it's
You've made a fairly modest contribution to their project in order to sort of get that offer for help and that actually paid off with
Calculator which is the calculator utility that's used by default in Marte as a whole not just on Ubuntu
Marte but Marte in general
and there was there was a bug in that in the 1510 cycle and I went back to the
Developer because I'd contributed to that, you know previously and he was like, oh short. No problem
We'll get that fixed and I just thought hmm. This is this is better going to
individuals rather than
Projects because there are some projects we've donated to and I won't I won't name them and the money just sort of
Goes into the project and there's no dialogue has been formed as a result, right?
Yeah, yeah, you've just you've just deposited some money somewhere and that was the end of that right so I've
In recent months. I'm starting to use this technique of well, I know that there are these people working on these things
These are the things that I would like to see implemented for Marte or Ubuntu Marte
I can go to these people and say will you do this one thing? And if if you can do it
There is this amount of money that that we can donate to you for doing the work
And if you
expand this out
if all of those other projects because I think distributions are able to pull in more
Donations than say individual applications, right?
so if those if all the distributions were pooling their money like this and
Were handing out discrete tasks because some of these tasks actually took far longer
My original idea is each task was you know, some hours of work not days of work
Although I've I've not got that right in some cases
The other is you give somebody a body of work that should take a few hours and you pay them
Something close to market rate for doing that work, but it's a very
Carefully defined has a known
Scope of work right? Yeah. Yeah and
And that's the idea and and and if other
Distributions were able to do that then maybe there would be more of these
Independent software developers working on open source that would be able to do these smaller piecemeal tasks
And maybe not make a salary just yet, but maybe
Yeah supplement their salary yeah, because
Ideally the what the size of the work I'm giving out here is something you can do in the evening, right?
It is an interesting model and I look at
so I've been you know, I have been following elementary OS for a while and I
Find what they do to be habits to have a unique I have it has a unique appeal that what they've been trying to do
For a while, so I've always liked to watch it and they're really filming a company. They're forming a you know
I full-on business. Mm-hmm
and I guess there's a mix there to be had right when be of it being a company for certain legal reasons, but then also
When I think of someone I guess what I'm trying to say is today when I think of the modern elementary OS team
They when they introduce a new person coming on to their project, they introduce them as a new person joining their company
It's not a new community member, right?
And so that doesn't seem to be a line that the Matei project is crossed. I'm not making a judgment call there
But I'm wondering if you have any thoughts on that and I mean Ubuntu Matei must there must be up. There is a company involved, right?
No, there's no company involved here
So he doesn't necessarily dictate them for the model to work that there has to be a business about it. Really. No, so
Ubuntu Matei is
what's called a
CIC in the UK, okay, it's a
I
Forget the back corporate in corporate music interest company, that's the words community interest company and it's basically
A way of setting up a charity like organization without actually having to go through the red tape of being a charity
Oh, that's nice. Okay interesting and I know it's apples and oranges perhaps but I just I just thought that's there's a lot of different
Takes we're seeing out there right now and I don't know
It seems to me now that the landscape is actually more fascinating than it's been. Yeah, right ever
So when be anyways that they'll have a link to the to the update in for February
But if people wanted to support the project or what's your preferred way? Is it patreon is do you have a preferred way?
It doesn't make much of a difference at the moment the thing I'm struggling with is it doesn't matter whether you're
Contributing via PayPal or patreon. There is a slice of money being taken out
Oh sure. Yeah, there's organizations there and I'd like to find a way where that is minimized in the future
But I'm gonna take time to sort out. So I believe that is called any time being
Yeah, I would I would prefer I would prefer patreon even if it's small amounts because that's predictable
Amounts of money being in that we can depend on them, but that said the pay the one-off PayPal
donations that people generously give to the project are
Far in excess of what what patreon?
Generates, you know, but patreon would be preferred because there's some predictability in in what was in there
I just want to underscore that welcome screen is super cool for like for installing like Spotify
Which is sometimes a bit of a pain in the ass on a book to be able to just have a button there
All right. So before we move on chat room or mumble room any last questions for a book?
Oh kits and go ahead. You've got our last question before we move on quite
Actually, it's more of a statement. I just wish more
Projects and distros had patreon like subscriptions because that would be something I'd totally do
When I settled down on a distro and use it for a long time is I'd like to be able to contribute and I'm not
A coder. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I would I I could see that too for like
Maybe you get betas or things before you get like access to like this behind-the-scenes development
If you're a super you know
I if elementary OS did that I would do that and if I don't want to pay I would do dollar one time for the ISO
I want to if you do the tiering rates, right?
I would I would back I would keep my backing for all of them, right?
You know if it's five bucks or whatever
I mean I I bounced between all of them enough that they're all useful and if you look at like one cost so
It my Linux desktop is infinitely more powerful than Windows 10 and Windows 10 costs $400 if you get the pro or 399 or 29
Whatever 299 a pro. I
Have no problem kicking in five bucks for ongoing continuing development of a kick-ass desktop
So I think more people should get on there. So yeah, well cool wimpy
Thank you for a give a stick around because wimpy has had a little time with the new Raspberry Pi special access
Yeah, well a little early bird
Preview so he's gonna give us his take on that and also I hope to get a little bit of inside info about kidding
No, I'm gonna pay up for it right on the release day. I have people are impressed
But first I wanted to mention a project called app image that we've talked about before
But it's got some stink behind it now Wes
It's got some real stink like you could get up and running right now on your distro. I'm doing it right now
Are you yeah, so app image at Les allows you to run Linux apps
Anywhere
Yeah, it's an application that you just drop it on the file system and you can run it, right
Yeah, you download the file you CH mod plus X and execute that and it runs
it actually it has an ISO file system in it and it
Fuse mounts that into slash temp and then runs the app from there
So is it a shell script you're downloading that runs and no it's an it's an executable
So I this is like they have they have all kinds of stuff available for array like they have app images
You can just download here. I'm running Krita right now. Look at you or Krita Krita. Yes
Yeah, let it look at you doing Linux. You've been drawn over there. Yeah, that's right in the show
But it's I mean it's running great. It's like I you know, it was like an 80 meg download
So they're bigger sizes, but that's really not a big deal it downloaded in a few seconds
What's the update process? Do you know you just go download a new one? That's a good question
I don't know cuz all the libraries must be contained in they are contained. Yeah. Yeah, so Linus Torvalds says he was it
they
They also they'd link to his Google Plus post where he talked about getting his subsurface in there a while ago
And and then we also don't look at that. We also have a link to some of the app image containers
Where you can go get them right now? So this is something I should try you think huh?
You think I should actually play with you know, I I think it could be useful for some people I think
Linus had some good points in that Google Plus thread when he was talking about it that you know
You wouldn't it should never this is not the model to replace core system dependencies or you know core utils or anything like that
But for the weird projects that maybe they have very like subsonic apparently needs very recent
Like lots of things you need very recent libraries for that's what they develop against
That's what makes sense and you can't get them in all your applications
So yeah, if this helps you get like Spotify or one-off apps that they were probably gonna package themselves this way anyway
Yeah, it's probably not a bad thing. Well, you know, I was
I don't know if the lamenting is what I would call it
but I was discussing with Noah on the last live stream like
I kind of I kind of love the idea of just getting like the perfect desktop install like just doing an LTS desktop and then
like
Actually writing it for the whole two years
like when sick what if sick and I don't think I can do this, but what if when 1604 comes out I
Just ran a 1604 based OS
For like two years, but I didn't the full experience just go for it
And then because then I feel like I feel like it's like when you have a couch or a chair
That's like it's like custom fit to your butt
I feel like a two-year distro is like custom fit to your butt
And so I want to just experience that but the problem is I like to run
Applications and you want to install things for reviews for the show. Mm-hmm. Yeah
I'd like to actually exist in the present
And so if something like this could allow me to run a nice stable LTS desktop
But yet have brand new absolute versions of my applications bang might have ourselves a winner Wes
You think you think you could do that? Like when you look at the application selection, could I actually accomplish that?
Is that not today right now? It looks like kind of the one guy is packaging all of these
So it would really need a lot of third-party people, you know, obviously subsurface is doing it
But some other big projects we're like, yeah, here's a here's the way we support. All right
Well in the meantime, I'm just gonna use a rolling distro
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, but yeah, it might work for like, oh, well
I have this 1404 install my parents house and they've been using it forever
But I really want them to try this new thing. Yeah, and one click it just runs. Yeah. Yeah
Hey, have you heard about the Intel atom the x3? They're they're bringing something called convergence to oh, I'm sorry
Continuum. No, I'm sorry
Handoff between Android and Debian Linux. It looks legit to Wes. This was going on a mobile world Congress
It's an Intel x86 chip phone. It runs like chromium like here. I'll play a little bit the video
It's it's I think it's probably not in English
Not English, but see he hooks it up there to the cord there
He starts the mode and on the screen there it begins a desktop environment
Yeah, and I don't know if you if y'all maybe I can do a little zoom and enhance your West bang
Do you see how that kind of looks a lot like?
Hmm something starts with a you looks like a lot like unity there doesn't it doesn't you see that sidebar?
But what you might notice is that's actual legitimate Google chromium. This is an x86 phone and
It's not it's a it's running all off the Android kernel. So the Linux environment is actually also used. So it's a shared kernel
It's a shared file system. You get access to the Android file system from within your Linux applications. You also see he's got VLC play. Yeah
and it's it's being demoed right now
I'd like to toss it to poppy and see poppy. What do you think sir of something like this with Intel backing something like this is
What do you think I mean this is like not really what canonical is going after but it seems to sort of be in the same
Vain kind of validates the idea bit, doesn't it?
It looks very
Similar to Ubuntu for Android, right? Yeah
Oh to MWC three years ago. It looks like it's exactly
Yeah, it looks exactly like that's what it is but
What's Intel's angle here? Cuz I mean are they is this a thing? They're actually selling like I
Well MWC is showing stuff off to the rest of industry. And so they will have had lots of meetings with
Potential hardware partners and ODMs and OEMs who may potentially ship this on a device in the future
But okay that UI look at that UI
Look at that
Look at that side launcher
With the with the search and the and the main search thing right up there in the top left hand corner
Your clock and your settings in the right hand corner. I mean, is that not sort of the unity interface right there?
This kind of looks it looks familiar. Yeah
You know, it turns out that some people actually quite like having a launcher on the left hand side
I do too. I did recently accessed applications in it and it indicate a panel in the top right with the status and the rest of
the
Screen to do whatever you want. I mean that that seems common. Yeah
Yeah, you just makes you wonder if if they've if they've seen what canonical has been working on
Yeah, it's like if they're aware
Do they understand how open source works like and I just have all these questions after I saw this
What do you think West is gonna actually make it to something? You could I don't know if we'll see this again
I don't know. I guess it depends if they follow up with it. I'll continue to be mildly interested
But okay, here's the takeaway though hundred dollars
x86 based two gigs of RAM like I mean this thing's like I got I got the specs in the show notes
It's a respectable piece of hardware. Would you hundred bucks? Well hundred bucks is a pretty good price point
Would you try it? Yeah, I would definitely try it for I mean, especially I feel you get that end up with that as a gift
or something
What do you mean a hundred?
Warhead, that's a great deal for an inch for an X and x86 fits in your pocket that has a Debian like cheroot
Or whatever it is that it loads that has chrome
And and all of your x86 I can put arch in that
Root carried my pocket and then plug it into my monitor just you know, wherever I am. That's pretty sweet your face
I could make do with Debian if I mean, you know, I'm gonna bring a laptop for the show
We'll just put a monitor here. I'll plug that in. Isn't that the dream?
Yeah, that is the dream and you know where you'd have that phone you'd have that phone over on the ting
That's right. That's also the dream ting isn't a dream. It's actually reality. You can take advantage of it right now
It's mobile that makes sense. No contract. No early termination fee and you only pay for what you use did I mention?
You only pay for what you use I you know what I know it sounds impossible
If you don't believe me, you could take it from somebody else maybe Kyra ting keeps rates simple
We don't make you pick a plan instead
You just use your phone as you normally would how much you use determines how much you pay each month
You can have as many devices as you want on one account
That's good
Because when you use more you pay less per minute message or megabyte of data
Your usage plus six dollars per active device on your account plus taxes is your monthly bill
Simple that's what we mean when we say
Mobile that makes sense ting
So you go to linux.com you get $25 off your first device or if you have a compatible device either CD me or GSM
They'll have like a little checker
Uh, you'll get $25 of service credit and you can also grab a ting sim on Amazon
But then I don't know how you're gonna give us credit. So go to linux.ting.com. Just go there
You know every time I hear that music I just I just feel good. I don't know if it's Kyra
I don't know if it's the great deal, dude
It is it is the trifecta of ting being badass and awesome and Kyra being super cool and that music just getting you right
Yeah, good trifecta. They got radically awesome customer support. They have an incredibly good dashboard
I mean, I really you know, I've tried all of them in the oh, what was the I got a new name
I got a new name for the dynamic duo, but I like I have I have had an account as a
Consumer and as a as a as a contractor with for my clients in business. I've had accounts with all of these
duopoly and around Chris I tell you I have gotten around with I have been passed around from carrier to carrier and
None of them none of them even come within a like a stone's toss of tings dashboard. Have you heard that same before?
No, I don't know. Hmm. Yeah, it comes from the
Comes from Hick town actually
They have great phones all the way up from feature phones to the top Cadillac phones
Linux dot ting comm go there and check them out and calm at 1 8 5 5 ting FTW. No contracts
Nor the termination fees and you own your device outright. Yes
Yes, what's up? Just like you would your computer Linux dot ting comm and a big thank you to ting for sponsoring the unplugged program
Okay, Wes moving right along sir. Oh and by the way, they're doing it
I should mention really quick ting is doing a giveaway of the galaxy j7. Just oh
Jay go get that stuff. Okay, so the raspberry pi 3 has landed
Wait what oops, sorry, I think I just dropped it down the toilet. Hold on. It's so small
It is gonna be 35 US don't bones has a 64-bit CPU is my understanding
but it ships with a 32-bit version of the OS to
USB ports on that thing
Go ahead go ahead jump in any time Bluetooth by the way Wi-Fi like we've had before before
And for USB ports of if I'm correct. Yeah
So with me, can you say how long have you had this?
Since Friday last week
So you've obviously been working on this thing trying to get a buntum a tight desktop working on it
What were your initial impressions of the hardware when you sat down to work with it?
Ah, it's it looks well, it is the same form factor as the Raspberry Pi 2 and the Raspberry Pi B plus
So, you know the number of ports and its size and its arrangement is almost identical
There's there's one minor change and that's the location of the LED lights
But other than that, it looks it looks like a Raspberry Pi
I
Hooked it up
Tried to boot my existing image for Ubuntu Marte and got a very colorful rainbow screen, which basically meant
Do not pass go
So yeah, then started work on making it work. Once I got it working
That it's obvious where the performance improvements come all really with this device
Yeah, yeah across across the board and in some unexpected places as well
So
It's got a new
Sock, so it's a Broadcom two eight three seven quite cool 1.2 gigahertz. It's an arm v8
Cortex a 53
It's clocked at 1.2 gigahertz, which is up from 900 megahertz as the stock clock on the Pi 2
and
by and large
more or less
Just about everything is about 50% quicker on the Pi 3 compared to the Pi 2
So you see that in everything in terms of the responsiveness of the applications
but
Where you really notice it is it really starts to close the gap in terms of things like if you've got a web browser open
And you're scrolling
You know the web pages that's much more fluid now much more fluid
and
So you've mentioned that there's there's Bluetooth and there's Wi-Fi now
So they're integrated on the sock
They're using a Broadcom
Four three four three something chip
and the interesting thing here is that in the past one of the criticisms of the Raspberry Pi was that the
The SD host controller and the Ethernet were on the same USB bus
right
So if you were doing a file copy over Ethernet, the performance could really take a dive
the Wi-Fi
Is implemented on the sock and on its own MMC controller and not on the USB bus now
I haven't tested this yet. This is this is what I want to tell you but my but my
working hypothesis is
It should move data around quicker over Wi-Fi than it can over Ethernet
Hmm it's good excuse not to bother trying to find an internet plug for that would be pretty cool
That would be that would be pretty damn impressive. Okay, so the hardware impressions
I mean a 50% improvement across the board that is damn form factor. That is damn impressive
I like that a lot and I'm kind of curious to see how that might actually play out with multitasking and things like that
How did that translate wimpy for you when getting whatever you need to do to make Ubuntu Mate work on?
the Raspberry Pi 3 because two things jump out of me number one is you kind of had to go back and retrofit the
Released version of Ubuntu Mate to make it work right because he couldn't just say well go if you want to make it work
Go use 1604 or did you?
No, I I because there wasn't much time to do this. I went with the build system
I had for 1510 because aside from the new, you know feature enablement. I knew the rest of the thing worked
So, you know
Minimize things that said I still only got about six hours sleep between Friday and Sunday working on this
You got it right out on release day. So that looked pretty good. That's impressive. Yeah. Yeah, it needs some work. So
despite the
Assistance I got from the Raspberry Pi Foundation over the weekend. So they they had some engineering assistance mostly from Phil
Elwell who who's just been brilliant. I haven't got the Bluetooth working in
On the Raspberry Pi 3 for Ubuntu Mate yet
But I'm yet to hear and maybe over the next couple of days. We'll start to hear I haven't heard if anyone's got Bluetooth working
At all yet that it's a bit
It's a bit complicated to get going and I was sort of groping around in the dark a little bit because I was sort of being
drip-fed oh you need this binary blob and
And I'm nice this still doesn't go and then oh no you need this this blob as well, which patches that other
No, you need these patches for this. So it was all good because I got all the information
But I just couldn't quite get the thing to enable the Bluetooth
So I've decided just to sit back for a few days and see
See if nobody else cracks with the official with the official images. Yeah, so I'm gonna start taking a look at the new images. So today
This evening I downloaded all of the new packages that have gone into the Raspberry Pi 3 and I'm going to be using them
this evening I downloaded all of the new packages that have gone into the raspberry and archive to do with Bluetooth and firmware and
I'm sort of picking through those to see if there's anything different that I may have missed or
Overlooked so Bluetooth will come in in due course and it will be delivered via an update. I should think very good. Okay now
There is another thing about the the Raspberry Pi. Hmm
All right to share that the Raspberry Pi 3 that I think is probably more important
I think the Raspberry Pi 3 itself is the hors d'oeuvre. This is not the main event. Oh
so in in the Pi 3 the
video core the graphics processor
Has been up clocked. So the video core was running at 250 megahertz
It now runs at 400 and the 3d graphics processor was running at 250 and now runs at 300
Okay, one of the benefits of that is that you can now run
1080p video at 60 frames per second. Yes, which is good
and
The other thing is is that there's been an awful lot of work going on behind the scenes at the Raspberry Pi Foundation
to do all of the
graphics enablement in kernel mode setting and direct rendering manager and Mesa and gallium and
That's sort of experimental at the moment
But I have had it working
for brief periods of time and
when that works
It's a game-changer
because you can
turn on the open GL renderer in VLC and
get
Smooth video playback in VLC. Nice. Not the rather clunky
can't quite keep up software version and
It has been also you can also run
OpenGL
Accelerated software providing open jail versions match up
So if you've ever played never ball or never putt, I've had that running full screen 60 frames per second
No problem, and there are other examples of where that on the pi 3 on the pi 3. Yeah Wow
Yeah, that is a big deal
So when that lands?
Properly, it's GLES
Warheads GLES is the implementation for the pi 3 but when that lands later in the year as a fully finished thing
That takes an awful lot of burden off the CPU. And I think that is where this sort of
pseudo desktop use case
Really comes into its own and will start to grow because you know using things like composited desktops
Becomes a reality and and alleviates burden from the CPU. This is it is yeah, but as it is it makes a very
usable desktop experience, I mean imagine if
For thirty five dollars you could buy a computer and plug in a USB
Microphone and join a mumble room and have a podcast just like we are now. Oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, this is this is all plugged into a Raspberry Pi 3. I'm talking
That is great
Drops the bomb
Well played sir, well played
You know, I was gonna ask you
If you think this is I mean Wow, I mean there you go podcasting is a is that's probably something you can barely even do from
A tablet. I mean you can but it's I just when I see this at $35 wimpy
Isn't that a big part of of the Raspberry Pi 3 is what the performance of the Raspberry Pi 3 is
What the performance for the price it's not fifty dollars. It's not it's not even forty five dollars
It's thirty five US greenbacks and that seems like that sort of is a game changer and your downloads must be bearing that out
Yeah, yeah that the I haven't looked since the the new images have gone up. I'll check in a week or so to see how things are going
but
Yeah, so the Raspberry Pi is known to be something that you know retails for thirty five dollars
Well, or at least the the traditional ones is obviously the zero now for five dollars
And as I understand it, they're trying to keep that thirty five dollar price point. So they will introduce features
To that price rather than just introduce features because they can which I think is kind of neat because you know
You know, it's always going to be thirty five dollars. Yeah, it keeps the expectation. Yeah
Yeah, it's a it's a step change in performance. Definitely and I think that it's very
It's very early now, you know, we're in day two, right?
I think you know a few a few months from now
We'll be able to see the full hopefully the full potential
On their part to keep the the form factor right by keeping the form factor the same
like
groups like
Groups like my craft though like my craft saying hey, we're now doing the testing and if everything works out
We're just going to include the Raspberry Pi 3 in with the my craft units because it just snaps right am upgrade
Isn't that don't you think that's the same price? Yes, I think that's I mean, I think that's a huge deal
I think that means that people that are building thing
I mean for predictability like that when you're building something right to have that kind of predictability that's important now for others
There might be other there might be other boards out there
But for some of us that is a huge component just right there
No, thirty five dollars about the same form factor
I can snap it in when you buy probably the same software you use before we'll just install to it
I think it's pretty neat any other thoughts wimpy
Well, the only other major change that sort of just juxtaposes what you've said is that it does require slightly more power now
so in the past
1.8 amp or 2 amp power was recommended. So that's a twist. Yeah now it's 2.4 amp. So
if you've got
existing power supplies that were
Kind of on the edge of being acceptable chances are you're going to need a new
Power supply. Yeah, I I use an atrix laptop lack
Lap dock to connect right to to work on them and I'm pleased to say that that still powers the pi 3
Yeah, I mean 2.4 amps is not too uncommon. So yeah. Yeah
Also, I fit the mate or Raspbian isn't your flavor Windows 10
Look at this West Windows 10 Internet of Things core for Raspberry Pi 3 is out. I even there's even a video look at this right here
Well, it's Windows powering a wheel like a ham so Windows go just like the hamster. It's learning Chris
You got to be nice. So Windows 10 on the Raspberry Pi 3 controlling a closed loop wheel
You ready for this West Raspberry Pi 3 running Windows 10 IOT core
The wheel represents a common situation in robotics when you need to know exactly how fast a robot's going or how far it's traveling
Here I have a display connected to the Raspberry Pi 3 you can see the speed of the wheel the speed I've chosen and the power
Output to the motor. I just can't ever imagine why you would want the overhead of Windows for such a simple task
It's just that's never gonna that that's never a value argument. You're gonna win. It's this crazy
Absolutely, but you know good on Microsoft for trying to be the people who already have all that. Yeah. What do you think?
Oh, that's cute and everything. But let's see them come on a podcast on we're using a Raspberry Pi 3. That's right. You know
Maybe they'd had maybe they better switch over to the old droid c2 the faster
Bigger version of a Raspberry Pi 3 you might heat sink five dollars more West
Okay, five dollars more you get two gigahertz ARM Cortex a 53 quad core processor with Mali 450 graphics two gigabytes of RAM and
a gigabit Ethernet port with 4k HDMI out
Also has the GPIO 40 pin and four USB ports and an IR receiver
That seems like a pretty nice device, too
So I'm just mentioning that because I know everybody's gonna give us feedback
Guys, the old droid is only five dollars more and it does X. Have you played with those at all wimpy? I
Have played with O droids. Yeah, I've got several but there's a keen difference between well
In fact any of most of the other SPC's and the Raspberry Pi
Raspberry Pi is a platform
It's not necessarily about the specifications and the capability of the device itself
The fact is is that if you bought a Raspberry Pi four years ago
You can run the same operating system on all of the iterations of the pie that have come out since and these other
manufacturers there
They don't have that longevity in the platform. They make a device
They want people to buy the device and then they're on working on the next
specification and the next iteration and the next new feature and the next new feature, so
You you sort of get obsoleted quite quickly
I've got I won't say who which manufacturers they are but I've got ones that you know now are a pain to maintain
because they're just not supported by the
Manufacturer anymore, you know, that's not that's an interesting case with the pie
I want to underscore your point about the pie being a platform because I think this is maybe the war the one thing
I haven't been able to articulate because when we talk about the Raspberry Pi a lot of people will write it and say
Why aren't you talking about this?
It has a better X and I have a it's sort of this is it
This is a this is just to make an equivalency
But in production we started using the GoPro from time to time
The GoPro is not the best camera in the world what the GoPro is is it's a camera platform and there are
Hundreds of different types of accessories
So if I'm driving down the road, there's a mount to mount the GoPro to the window
If I want to walk with a selfie stick in a crowd, there's a mount for that if I want to use a gyroscopic stabilizer
There's an accessory for that
There is all different tripods and different types of head mounts and body mounts and charging
Accessories and all this weird stuff for this one little teeny tiny camera. The camera isn't the important part
It's this entire platform of all this stuff that the camera can snap into and be used and then on top of that
It's an entire community
Around this camera that knows how to do all these different jobs
Like hey, I want to mount a camera to a bike as I'm going down a hill at 40 miles per hour
there's people out there that know how to do that and so the GoPro isn't necessarily the
X, you know, maybe it's not the best camera for 4k 120 frame-per-second video capture attached to a drone
But it right is a very good camera for a lot of reasons and just like the Raspberry Pi maybe isn't the fastest or whatever
It it is a platform where there's a lot of things around it
there's a lot of people that know how to support it and there's an ecosystem and
Third it's 35 bucks, right?
And it sounds like that the Raspberry Pi is really and I mean to Broadcram's credit even that they're they're doing a good a better
Job of up streaming things into the kernel. Mm-hmm
Like when B was talking about, you know
So we'll hopefully see more better support and yeah
You won't you won't bought by this one-off system on a chip that runs this one distribution with these binaries that are compiled against that
Distributions of you know modules that'll just work
Yes producer q5 says points out if you take my argument to the logical extreme
That would be a argument to stay with iOS or Android is because of the apps in the walled garden the ecosystem
And I think with each thing there is sort of it's not black and white
There is a gray area like if you want something for example that requires gigabit Ethernet
Then maybe the old droid would just be the more obvious choice, right?
I'm not saying one is better than the other I'm saying I think one of the reasons why
Something can be popular like that is because of all of that and it's for some people that's what they need or like
You know the the mycroft folks, for example, they could ship anything in the mycroft
Yeah their own hardware whatever but the Raspberry Pi is attractive for some of the reasons we outlined in our discussion
I think it's fascinating and I loves it and I love the Microsoft's trying that's super adorable. It's all running Linux
Yeah, you could put Windows 10 Internet of Things core
Edition that just rolls right off the tongue Windows Windows 10
How about just I can't even just that even just that just drives me crazy about Microsoft, you know, we need to do
We need to punish Chris. I
I got some feedback this week from the next action show. I introduced an app pick
that
Has a pretty big disclaimer and I didn't make that disclaimer and for some of you who are very privacy focused
I sort of like committed like
Total crime here and I I need to I need to come out. I need to admit my faults
Yes, I got to admit that I did make a mistake and then I got to tell you what's going on
Give you a full disclaimer about it because otherwise, I'm gonna get in trouble and maybe I could blame Noah
You think I think you already have. Oh, did I just now?
I like the way you think West, you know, what else I like Linux Academy go to Linux Academy comm slash
Unplugged and check them out. This is a great sponsor for our audience because they are perfect fit you guys
It's not just a feature like they don't just have always make sure we have Linux on our support page
And let's make sure we can do Red Hat because that's something people use
They are passionate about Linux the higher educators and developers and they bring them together and they created the Linux Academy platform
And now they're filling out the back end staff. So that way all of the content stays relevant. They can introduce new features
They they do have like the Red Hat certified engineer stuff
They're working on right now and those sort of those administration courses a bunch of AWS stuff over
2330 courses, I know
Scenario-based labs where you work in their advanced lab environment complete scenarios from the beginning to the end. How did you know?
Because I learned that when you learn the Linux Academy Linux Academy comm slash unplug you support the show take advantage of
The great discount we get they have instructor mentoring which I think is really great. They have graded server exercises
Big one helps you if you got test a phobia like I do and you know
You're not just thinking that you've learned this stuff, you know, you didn't just read the articles like you've done it
And you've been tested on it and you know, one of the other things that's been really nice for me is being able to go
In there and conceptualize how long it would actually take to learn something like a topic like we'll say I want to learn how to write
Some PHP. What would that actually take? Oh
Here it all is outline step by step what I could expect and Linux Academy works in such a great way because you can say I
Have this much of time available this, you know a couple hours on Monday a couple hours on Tuesday. Does it work with the zero hours Chris?
Well in that case what you do is you want to use the Nuggets oh, yeah, right you would so you can if you got zero hours
Available what you do is when you're driving down the road Wes
And you're not driving but somebody else is driving when you're being driven down the road
They have a new iOS app now
I know you don't have the Nexus 5 there, but you just bring an internet paddle with you
Bring it up on the internet paddle device Linux Academy. They are working on an Android device though for your Nexus
They have a really the Nugget system is actually a really cool idea
So they've been working in some of their live video stream events so you can just you know if you don't have time to do a
Course you can just kind of benefit from watching some of their live events where educators speak or they talk about the platform
Cool. Yeah, they also have nuggets are like two minutes long. You got two minutes, right? You got two minutes Wes
I think so. Yeah, then you can do anything right now. Shoot. You could do it right now
I'm talking about Linux Academy every single Tuesday West Linux Academy calm slash unplugged right there practice exams
Check out their detailed notes comprehensive study guides. You can download them from the link in the description below
It's comprehensive study guides. You can download
Stuff you can listen to offline in the shower
Seven plus distros to pick from automatically adjust the courseware and the virtual machines which spin up on-demand
Right when you need them you get to SSHN because
You know, they know that's what you want to do
I know if you want you could tell that but I'm just saying you should probably know you can't tell it. No
Linux Academy calm slash unplugged and a big thank you Linux Academy for sponsoring the unplug program great fit
Go check him out. All right, Wes. So I'm a big idiot and
You know, I'm not gonna blame Noah, but I'm just gonna say things were bumpy on Sunday's Linux action show behind the scenes
It was a rough ride as it were and tell everyone. No, I won't I'm not just saying zombies
Don't run Linux things were a little rough and a bit of feedback. We got on Sunday show
I'm gonna see if I can zoom in enhance your watch
It came in from Maroki
Marco Marcoli Chris. Are you aware that by using the n1 client?
All your mail is being routed through their third-party services by default n1 uses the analysis
API an open-source sync engine to handle mail sync operations on their own cloud
Not their own cloud, but their own cloud infrastructure
In effect, this means the emails you get from the app first pass through and are stored on their server. That's a big no-no in
My book and so my accidental
Omission omission. Thank you omission of this fact
Led to a thread on our Linux because why not?
That's what we do. That's what we do
Yeah, where they say n1 is a very nice open-source client with modern workflow
But it requires that all emails are synced on the nalaya servers and run and maintain a sync engine or run the engine locally
Would you trust a third-party service provider with your emails? However secure they claim to be so it's part one my bad
I'm sorry. I didn't mention that we ran a little short on time and I neglected to bring that part up
However, the reason why it didn't stand out to me as a big issue is because they do have a gpl3 server
You can run yourself. They do. Yeah, and we have a link in the show notes
So it's not like you have to use their server the one big disappoint if you are gonna use
Active sync the open source version does not support it. That was big. Yeah, that's not a bad thing for me
But yeah, but there is like the open source a DAV mail client will translate active sync to IMAP, etc
So mm-hmm. Well, and here's the other thing why and this is where I was going with this
Where do you draw the line because for me and one is connecting to a gmail account
So do I stop using gmail like to me? Where do we do? Where do we take this?
And we seem to be now in this position where I was looking at this
There's like three or four email clients now for mobile devices and they all use server-side mail processing sure
It's becoming super common on mobile because you have lots of server-side processing power
You don't have battery constraints there. You can do all your kind of filtering push what you need
Yeah
You do push notifications and you open up the app and the app pulls down the latest stuff and this is becoming really common on
Mobile and now they're starting to do it on desktop and it's not gonna be just email. Yeah
Where do you draw the line? West? Do you do you do you draw a hard line and say I just won't use
Third-party hosted services. I don't care how trustworthy they are. I don't care how secure they claim to be. It's too risky
Do you walk a line somewhere? Is there a great?
You have like rings of trust, you know right on me brother. Well, whether they're like some some communications
You know, maybe your various things where there's a lot of mail that I don't really care if it goes through
I mean, I do not trust nihilists in the last however you say their name
I don't trust Gmail either, so most of my Gmail Google has more interest in getting out stuff out of my email
Right, but that said, you know if I was already running my own private mail server
I probably wouldn't want to introduce this third party into the system
And if it was not super easy to spin up my own sink engine
Then I might just keep using what I'm doing now
But I think you have to operate with regions of like this is my secure mail. This is where I do my most secure stuff
I know, you know, I know who has access and when and then you can go from there. I'll tell you I feel West like the
polar bear on a melting ice cap and I'm sitting here floating in the ocean and my and the little piece of ice that I'm
On is getting smaller and smaller and smaller and and like eventually
I'm just gonna have to go jump in the ocean and I'm just gonna have to swim
Man, it's either you do that
It feels like in some ways you either you either play by what the world is doing or you're just the weird Linux user
Who doesn't use any of the services everyone else does. Mm-hmm, which that's no fun either
No, because then you start to get left out of certain things. But also there is a bit of a stigma there
Oh, yeah. Well the Linux guy, of course, he's not gonna use that like you don't want to be that guy either or gal
So I I don't know where did I like I don't know at what point like Twitter also another example all the data is
You know on Twitter servers
So I find it's like it's fine when it's well fine I say but you know when it's one service you can kind of
Compartmentalize sure you deal with it, but when it becomes more normalized exactly when it's everything you use
Another example of this is IRC cloud IRC cloud is a server side IRC server that logs in for you
And then you go to the website and it downloads all the IRC. It's your little fancy private bouncer. Yeah, exactly
So I I this is I think you know, you could see this more and more with instant messaging
I could see this with all kinds of applications imagine like a like a server side terminal service
Right where you connect you open up your terminal and it connects to some cloud instance of a terminal where you maybe have like it's like
It's like hosted screen, right? It's like some sort of weird right really easy to use hosted screen
And I there could be all kinds of reasons for that
I'm wondering if I wonder if they're you know, if it's since it is GPL
I wonder if there'll be like private servers like would you if you signed an agreement someone?
Yeah, like would you use someone else's hosted sink engine if they had like a firmer agreement about I would want to just put it
On my own drop. Well, yeah, that's you does anyone in the number has anyone done that? I I haven't bothered you yet
But no, I wonder I think it's too new kids and you had an idea you want to jump in here. Go ahead
Yeah, there's actually several third-party mail
Hosts and whatnot like it's quick slash start page. They're the same company
That you could actually pay them a subscription service and they'll give you access to an email
Server that they don't scan your email. They don't do anything with it's just all yours
So the overall theme on the our Linux thread is a hard no
No way no hell no way at all. Would I let anybody host my mail for me and I mostly agree
In concept, but in I guess in theory but in actual practice, it seems to be less and less
I guess I have a hard time. I
Guess I have a hard time. I get it, but I don't know everything goes through Gmail for most people already. That's true
Yeah, and I wonder what for Linux users. Where do we go with something like this?
That's where it comes back
Like if you're already running your own mail server, then it's not really relevant
Like of course, it's a hard no, but for everyone else, it's just one more. I think the solution
I think there is a solution
I think when projects like n1 come out and they say yeah
And we also make the server-side open source if you want to run it
Run it. Yeah, use it contribute to that and make it a valuable thing for the project and make it something that other projects are
You're encouraged to do. I was really surprised to see like I couldn't even find a digital ocean
You know how to yet on how to set up a sink engine
So like there's a good opportunity for someone in the community as well
Yeah, it's it's it's very very new and I have a link to that s in the show notes
If you guys are curious, you can go check that out
Mobile remaining closing thoughts on the whole having more and more services hosted and how it's sort of infringes on privacy
Open that up. Yeah, so it's it's just I guess I understand where you're coming from
I guess the the only thing I can really say to kind of give reflection on it is I
Guess the limit for a lot of people is going to be you know, they realize that they're using Gmail
They're using some service and they're sure that maybe Google does go over and just you'd go through
All their emails and you know, it's fairly privacy
I know it lacks a lot of privacy
Their big thing is they don't
Know at least for me anyway, I shouldn't speak for everyone
But a lot of people I guess are kind of upset and don't want another person reaching into the data
It's like too many hands in the cookie jar right now. That's true
And that cookie jar is only as strong as the weakest link. Isn't that true Wimpy?
It is and you know a lot of people do use Google and we can't know for sure
How much Google are complying or not with government requests for access to data
But if you've got to proxy all of your mail through a smaller organization like Nihilus
They will absolutely roll over if they get pressured by government organizations
So don't double proxy your email through smaller clients do what you suggested
Which is if you want to use a platform like that host it yourself
Yeah, very much. So this has been my general take is have one that is
You know, it is honestly life is easier just to have a Google account
There's just certain things that make it easier
So that's where a lot of stuff will go to that I don't have a super high priority
And then if I don't have a private I have a private hosted email account
That's like for actual private communications, right?
And that's just been and and and it seems like to me that I
If I really cared that's where you have to draw the line
And I've always I've always kind of liked the idea of pushing that a little bit
And making myself a little uncomfortable and say well I could do a hosted version of this
But let's try building around and we go back and forth in that all the time different stuff
But it's always sort of the general where do you want to allocate your resources?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's sort of the general direction we go in and I don't know
So anyways, I do apologize though for not mentioning the server side
This that was sort of a crazy moment in the show
And so I just sort of neglected to mention it and that was my bad
So that's my errata for this week's episode of the Unplugged Program
I'd like to say to you that a lot of the stuff I've seen I've never used it really
But just looking through their documentation and one yeah and looking at like the extensibility
It seems like a cool project and the fact that they're going open source at the start
I hope that community springs up that does run this stuff on yeah, you know
Yeah, and don't be turned off just because it looks like an OS 10 application
If you download it and you turn on the dark theme, it's not so bad
It is a Chromium application too
So I'm not saying it's the perfect thing
It's just with Thunderbird kind of being an unknown and Geary now being Pantheon Mail for elementary OS
Evolution being something that makes me want to commit suicide and Kmail feeling like it's from the 90s
I'm just sort of looking for a nice desktop mail client that can handle a huge inbox
And so here's the thing is their server side processing
You know what that means?
The client doesn't crap itself when I open up an inbox with 50,000 unread messages
So that there's like not a lot of not a lot of email clients meet that standard
And Thunderbird is one of them although Thunderbird just choose and choose infinitely
Thunderbird never stops chewing on my inbox, but at least it's still responsive to
Creepy Uncle says I should try out Outlook
Are you in the Mamba Room, Creepy?
Creepy on mobile?
Creepy, are you drunk right now?
Outlook?
No, I'm in here
World class email, Chris
Get the heck out of here
Crossover, come on
No, no, you know what?
Get it out of here
No way, no way
All right, so that'll bring us to the end
Unless anybody else has anything else they want to contribute
Going once, going twice
All right, that'll bring us to the end of this week's Linux Unplugged
Did you know, Wes, we do this show live?
Every week
Oh my goodness, on a Tuesday over at jblive.tv
Go to jupiterbroadcasting.com slash calendar to get that converted to your local time zone
We got a Mamba Room
To be in PST
That's right, JB in the PST
We got the Mamba Room
We got the live chat so you can hang out in there
linuxactionshow.reddit.com
You can't make it live, go there
Contribute
You guys are what make this show possible
That's deep and so true
jupiterbroadcasting.com slash contact for the emails
Thanks for joining us on this week's episode of the Unplugged program
And we'll see you right back here next Tuesday
Holy crap
It cannot be 350
Holy smokes
I have to start unfiltering in like 40 minutes
This is, oh my gosh, jbtitles.com, let's vote
You know what's weird about the windstorm?
So those people that are listening don't know this, hopefully
But we had to stop recording partway through the show
Because the lights started flickering here in the studio
And if the machine loses power, Wes, and the file isn't completed
We lose everything in the file
It has to be completed, right?
The file has to be closed
And so I stopped and started recording so that we wouldn't lose all of the show
But you know what's weird about the wind right now?
It's freaking sunny out
Yeah, now it's like a beautiful day
It's still a gust of wind
But it's like, I don't know, it's strange out there
With gray on the horizon
Yeah, oh man
Don't even make me talk about Panda Express, Warhead
Don't even, don't even
All right, jbtitles.com
We've got to pick this thing fast because they've got these other jerks that are going to come here in the studio
This guy named Chris, he's got to get here and start another show
Man, I hate that guy
I feel like I'm already losing my voice
A little bit
You have hours to go
Can you hear that? Yeah, yeah
It's going to be rough
Anyways Wimpy, thanks for all the great contributions today
That was excellent sir
My pleasure
And thank you to everybody in the mobile room for being here
Yeah, really
Thanks for joining us on this Super Tuesday
Every Tuesday is super with Linux unplugged
That's good
Let's go with that, that's our new slogan